Just when i arrived
At Geneva airport
I realize this is over.
It's hard over there
Physically but mainly psychologically
If i had to do it again
it is good...
I don't think I will.
In September 2008
I left Switzerland, very comfortable
Spend 10 months alone in Tonga Islands
In the central pacific
For life, I brought
A machete and my swiss knife
I also have a medicine bag
Satellite phones, solar panels and batteries
Power my camera.
The dream i want to achieve
I have been working for this for 14 months
Now, now I am here
But I think the most important thing is
Keep zen
keep cool
Because no matter what happens, I will be alone
Tonga islands got lost
In the central pacific
About 250 km from Tofua Island
From the capital and its last resident
Left about 20 years ago
Tofu is a caldera,
A once exploding volcano
There is a sulfuric acid lake in the middle
In the north of the island
You can see the smoke
From still active volcanoes
I'm only 24 hours here
I miss food i miss drinks
water
I miss everything
This is too bad
No, this is not terrible, but
It tells me
You can't do it for the first time
You have to go step by step
I have to learn
And it took much more time than I expected.
The next day, I installed solar panels
Charge my battery
Then I went fishing
At sunset
I still didn't catch anything.
But like i'm giving up
I hit the first fish.
the most important is
It's enough to feed me
In the next two days
I feel good, I feel much better this morning
Because i can get a fish
I can eat it, there is still time tomorrow
Then I am very happy
I will burn the fire again
Five minutes ten minutes and then I sleep
because
I don't want to waste wood
There are many, but...
It does not work.
All the wood is wet
Hello
Ants everywhere
I can't even eat anymore.
Oh yes, I'm sure,
They got everything
There are not many friends on the island.
I must find a way to protect my fishing.
At home in the Alps
Elders use two methods
Preserved meat
Marinated and smoked.
Okay, the goal is to make a difference
Fish
Because I hope there are many fish
Not many fish
I want to smoke
It doesn’t take much time to build a smoke house
It works very well
My grandfather will be proud of me
In the first two days I tried to sleep
Use the curved trunk of a coconut tree
But I won't spend ten months like that.
I had to build a shelter for myself.
I start from the roof.
Latex works, coconut eyelashes,
New or dry
Usual lock
Or unusual
Roof with coconut branches
I played through paneling
Hope this won't let water pass
Four days later, my shelter was built
And I can move on.
I still have to complete an important ceremony
To live under the laws of nature.
I have to stop time
The thing is, I should find a good place to watch
Not too far from the ocean
So even underground
It can get a good atmosphere from the sea
Yes
very beautiful
So from now on i will be here
About nine months and twenty days
The time I stopped alone
At the beginning, fishing spent most of my time.
I am not catching fish every day
I spent a long time
Wait for them to bite
I imagine there is a system that can get rid of the tedious work
The principle is very simple
A heavy branch like a fishing rod
A heavy stone as a counterweight
Fishing line and bait
Then it succeeded.
OK, I'm exhausted
It seems easy, I know what to do, but
I don't eat too much now
Because i have no choice
My drink is ok, but
Every time I have to work hard
I get tired easily
Now i want to rest
I'm not worried anyway
When you are hungry, you are less picky
I found some snails
Ok, only a few of them
Superstars are not enough.
Okay, good appetite
Lack of food
Sudden loneliness
No reference point
I don't know what is most important to me
But eight days later
I cracked
My family miss me
Everything I know is actually missing me.
Very good, but I...
I can not find
I have no food
I have water, but it’s difficult, it’s difficult
with...
In my house, I have everything, and then I say
Why, why do you do this?
You can, you can, you can stay at home, cool
With your friends, girlfriends
family
Just hit me without warning
I'm in the dump
22,000 km from home
Away from my friends, my family my refrigerator
The worst part is that this is my idea.
Fortunately I have a motivated sign
My friend wrote my message on it
Reading them gave me the courage to move on
the most important is
That day was the first time I saw a whale
When you see this
I can tell you that you have forgotten all the questions.
I miss many things here,
I have a lot of things here
I can't go home
But it's hard in the morning
Remember this
But at night
I feel this feeling again, I feel very happy
I am quiet
I think what I want to learn is to walk slowly now
I must learn...
Take time to do everything
Everything I still want to do here is fast
Make it finish as soon as possible
This is not the way.
I have to put this, this plastic
This is the protection of my solar panel
Because i realized
My roof is not waterproof at all
with
I really need a waterproof roof
For all the materials I have,
That's why i put this
I will start today
Work with coconut sleeves
Make a waterproof roof.
The first step is
Reaching the top of the coconut tree
But it seems easy if you climb the tree
Reaching the palm of the tree
Such a smooth suitcase
It's another fish.
Complete this exploit
I peeled off the palm tree
I chose them because of their length
It matches very well with one of my roofs.
Then weave
The method is very simple
More than once, less than once
In Tonga Islands, the roof of the shelter
Covered by layered lattice work
Make them waterproof.
Obviously some of them are needed anyway
Another major problem I encountered was mosquitoes
There are thousands of people in that forest
So the best way to keep them away from my camp
Is to clean around the shelter
And open up space
So the wind from the ocean
Can create natural protection
But this is useless.
From this morning, I heard the sound of the volcano
I don't know what happened
I'm a little worried
Because we never know
That's why i
I came to the top
I must find a way
I came to the top of the mountain to see the volcano
The road to the volcano is not a piece of cake
Especially here
Through the jungle
But once it reaches the side of the crater
Sight makes you forget about hard work.
very beautiful
At this moment you really feel humble
It makes me cry
Indeed, sometimes I feel lonely
The only constant is me
At the beginning
But i stayed for a month
Indeed, I almost missed everything
I'm in the middle of nature
But in the middle of nowhere
I'm alone
I am really lonely, it is not easy.
After my first trip to the volcano
I decided to extend every day
The known circumference is more than a few hundred meters
I always look around
There is always something to discover
forever and ever
Today is a mango tree
Huge, bent due to too much fruit
Looking for those almost ripe fruits
It feels like getting a Christmas present
To strengthen my roof,
I need some rope
On Tofua, there is a rope tree.
I just need to find it
Oh no, it's not very strong, is it?
This is completely rotten
After several attempts,
I finally found what I wanted
ee
I just need to cut some long belts from the minstrel
Let them dry in the sun
I finished the roof on one side today
We certainly have to see if it is waterproof, but
At least i got nothing
And coconut sleeves
I am proud of this
You know life here
It's very simple, but not so easy...
Everything you do
I have learnt a lot
It gives me a new understanding of the world
Because fishing does not bring me food every day
I added new dishes to my diet
Small coconut bud
Cook with charcoal
Wear ashes and bran.
Coconuts are easy to cut.
It looks like a fruit plate
It's hard to describe the taste
Soft
a bit sweet
But no cocoa
A warm
This is awesome
Spent more than a month on the island
I can survive and organize the necessities
Only one question left
Lack of interpersonal communication
I realize now
I started to feel lonely
Because i have nothing to say
I have no one to change my opinion
Then I said to myself
But I always agree with me
That's not fun
No one can give me more information
About what i already know
No matter what I do, I am alone
I can't say it by myself
You know
No i think i'm enough
I'm bored now
Alone, alone and bored.
I found a good place there
But it is difficult to enter from the beach
Because all the stones
Maybe I can find the easiest way
Walk from inside
yeeeesss
Sitting on that beach
I considered the vastness of the sea
Taste my victory
But look around me
I found myself
Facing the worst moment of our civilization
So much garbage
Throw into the sea
Thousands of kilometers from here
Take away by water
Finally along the coast.
I even found a little bamboo.
I can use it for...
I decided to take it back to the camp
Until it finds use
But I already have an idea
Now, in theory, I have...
I have a digeridoo
If you forget the mosquito
Life on Tofua seems mellow
But when fishing every day
I risk hurting myself
Walking on the rock.
I often scrub myself
When I was exploring the forest
I eventually got infected under the skin
No longer healed.
I have to use a satellite phone
Call Dr. Rich in Switzerland
He did follow-up work from there.
Yes, Jack, this is Xavier Rosset's call
Spiritually, I am fine
I can almost do what I want
But in fact
I have a small technical problem
I need you too
I introduced him to what it looked like
He told me what to use from the medical kit
He helped me get together in Switzerland
Now i go, i go
I really don’t want to do it because
Already hurt
Maybe it will be better in the future.
Dirt appears every day
I have to wash the sea water every day
When I boil the water
Flat water, I have to wash it with ordinary water again
I have to release betadine
This is special cream
I am in the middle of nowhere
And I am taking antibiotics! ! !
Within five days, if the situation is not good
I must call the doctor
Thanks to my doctor's advice
I am taking special care of the wound
They healed within a few days
But even if I am busy every day
I started to suffer another problem
The medicine cannot be cured.
I am not motivated to do anything now
because
I am alone
I didn't even try to make fire
Use the wood you know
because...
Because i'm fed up
I have nothing
I don’t know why and why
I am alone, I should
Share with
nobody
nobody.
I came because of me
Need some help
For my friends in the village
Cut his finger
like this
Break the river
Also break his finger
Just like he heard my voice
Lofi appeared in my life.
A few days a year
Farmers on neighboring islands
Come tofu planting Sichuan
A plant whose root is used to produce bitter drinks
Luffy is one of them
He more or less knows where my camp is
He came to me
Hope i can save his friend's finger
But their camp is more than six hours away from us
Row
Now and on the way back
My friend Love's Village
Because one of his friends has a big cut and finger
Fingers stick out
possible
What can i do
I will try my best
But if the infection has already started
It's too late.
The best way to observe is to take a look.
Lofi likes to follow me
So he can adapt to my speed
Instead of looking at his shoulder
Avoid losing me
Very sweet eh?
In the middle? Very very sweet.
It's so good
Once we reach the camp
I can quickly measure the severity of the case
are you alright?
Malo Ariel
I cannot manage first aid
But i know he will have to
Go to the medical center
As long as there is a boat to pick him up
During this time, I tried my best
With a medicine chest and my little knowledge
Ok i think i've done my best with your friends
I can do it until tomorrow, but it will be better
He went to the hospital.
Okay thank you
I’m Tofua’s doctor, but
I tried my best.
Chimy's fingers are much better now
For me, it's time
Back to Hokula
I arrive at my house in Hokula
Yes
Leaving these people makes me very strange
Every good person comes back alone
In my place i don't know
But now it’s time to go, I’m on the way
Very warm day
You are not always alone
Even if you are looking for it.
About sailing
As if it were close to Hokula
For me, this may be an extraordinary visit
I really look forward to seeing them
The same boat brought a group of Norwegians
They finished two months
Sail in Archipelago.
I wasn't in the camera
No, it's a visitor
What do you think of the house?
Did you see it
Not many luxury goods
I guess it's really good for you, for the next...
Half a year or one year
You have a bed
Where you hide in the rain
If you are finishing the roof
Before finishing the roof, I took them to the volcano
They spent the day, and I
I have been in the world all the time.
This is not my first time here
But until now I have stayed on the crest.
With them, I'm closer to the crater
I like this.
An isolated island in the middle of nowhere
Yes
One by one residents
That's cool
You like machete
You like the job of machete
Cool way
Work in the forest
I can guide these people, very nice people
I can guide them to the top of the island
Take them to the volcano
Spend a day with them
They regret that they must leave today
But we spent a beautiful day together
Now i have a little rice
I take onions, I take a garlic,
I drank two glasses of beer
I also got
Coca Cola
Then I am really happy to meet them
It's cool, because today I am no longer lonely
Talk to people
I can exchange opinions, I can...you know me
I am no longer alone
Ok now i feel very happy
Because they are here, but in another way
I also feel sad because they are leaving
But what I have to remember is
They are with me
They changed my day
Thank you Norwegian people, thank you very much
My visitors are right
In December, the rainy season begins
I must make sure that my roof is waterproof
Once the work is completed and the last branch is determined
I decided to give myself a little luxury
Scenery on the ocean.
All work of the machete
The blade was finally mixed.
The machete is no longer cutting
And improve it, there is nothing better than this
There are more volcanic stones polished by the sea
Once wet, it works well
After spending a few months on the island
I have enough knowledge.
In this way, routine transactions can be resolved.
I am very good at providing food for myself
And around my camp
Has greatly increased
And loneliness...
At Christmas
I decided to use a satellite phone
Leave a message to my parents
This is my first Christmas without you
Feel a bit strange
That's it
I just want to wish you a Merry Christmas
And dad, hope your hips are better
everything is fine
I want you to know
Everything goes well
Don't worry about me
Merry Christmas.
Spend Christmas and New Year's Eve
Alone on the island
It's really frustrating.
I am thinking of my friend
My family, foie gras
Champagne and all these things sparkle
Usually I don’t like it very much.
I stayed here for another six months
Okay, not entirely because of my best friend Gael
Promise to come
Spent two with me last week
But at the same time
Myself.
That's what i think
Because there are amazing company competitors
Cheer up
His name is sugar
He is nine months old
Lofi's father gave it to me
Because he thought i was
Hokula is so lonely here.
Luffy came to the farmer I helped
Come back one morning
Give me these dogs as gifts.
He wanted to thank me
Because he saved his friend's finger.
My motivation is back on track
A small garden will increase my dietary diversity.
So i became a farmer
Always use what I can find.
I chose the front of the school may be strange
Make my plantation
But this is very strategic thinking
because
First of all, this is the only place
Where there are no big trees
Another thing is
15 to 20 minutes away from my camp.
Then I can come every day
Because of wild boar
If i don't come every day
They will eat everything I do here.
Another reason is that the waterwheel is here
I will use it to
Watering my plantation.
I need to work more than beauty.
I also kept the watermelon seeds
Lofi gave it to me with the dog.
The ground seems fertile
And ideal temperature.
Therefore, while waiting for things to develop,
I decided to continue exploring the island.
Looking for new fruits or vegetables,
beach
cave
Or just a new landscape
I walk west along the coast
Along the rocky cliff,
Stop going to sea.
I'm on the west side of the island,
The goal is to discover
This part of the island
This is
I have that part of the house.
There are no big trees here
Insufficient vegetation
Vegetation is very dry
And one of the goals is to find
Captain Cook Cave
Because it's near the ocean
But here is big
Can't find it
Not impossible but difficult
OK, now it’s time to go home and cook
Able to eat
I need a fish.
That evening,
I have a big surprise...
I put this
I was a little scared to see this little beast.
I saw another
About a month ago
Same size
I think what you see is great.
In addition to the impressive animals
Suddenly I have a lot of food.
I tried hum
This is the hole in the ground where you are going to fire.
You put the fish fillet on the hot amber,
And completely cover up
Like an oven
The heat from it should
Cook slowly
a couple of hours
The shark is cooked all night
I pray that no insect will invite me
Eat at your own expense.
After removing leaves and dirt
Mask it
I won't believe it is hot
It's still hot!
Slow cooking is to save the fish
Lasts two to three days
But i'm frustrated
Only eat fish in the past few months
So I decided to hunt wild boar.
I tried to find a pig road,
There are many, many ways
For the pigs here
The pig used this road
For us, this is impossible...
Follow all paths
Because if they are
No longer 60 cm high
But if I find out, I want to make a hole
On it, 80 cm long
40 cm
Maybe one meter 20 deep
I want to hide some coconuts
Maybe I can raise a pig.
Go this way, I want to find a suitable place
The ground is soft and near the water
The pig will definitely pass by.
water...
I think I found a good way
Now i have to
Find a good place to make a hole
While waiting, my small garden started to grow up.
The first bud is visible.
This is a huge success
The end result looks promising.
Big
This is watermelon
There are small onions here.
After only one week of my gardening work,
Everything is on the ground
Okay, I don’t have many choices
But i see my job
Bear fruit.
Trap is ready
Planted garden
That was the perfect time
Visit the volcano
I woke up this morning
Then I have nothing to do...
why do not you go
Go to see the volcano
And the way from the top
I have heard the loud sound of the volcano... already
When you are here
It looks real
It really looks like the moon
Where the moon is.
Now i go to see the volcano
Deep sense of humility
Characterize each visit to the volcano
I touched the center of the earth
water
air
Earth and fire
All elements have been collected.
Tropical rain for thousands of years
Created this magnificent scenery.
When i cross the canyon
I was deeply attracted
Unbelievable story formed by entering the island
Scratches are part of
My inconvenience every day
I pay little attention to this.
But when one of them starts to swell
And I can’t even bend my fingers,
I started to worry.
Aaaaaïueueeeeee
It's really painful.
By phone, my doctor explained
Actions i have to perform
Try to stop the infection.
Within 24 hours, if it doesn’t look good,
I go to the hospital
I need five to ten days
Until i can go to the first hospital
They can do something for me.
then...
You know i don't have to wait too long
If the infection doesn’t really last
In hand
It can rise to the arm
Into the blood
It can cause general infections
If I have a general infection,
This is the danger in my life
I don't want to die
I'm not afraid of that
If I can do something against it, I will
In Tofua, it rains almost every day.
From now on my roof has proven itself
waterproof
Therefore, well protected
I waited for the rain to stop
My hands are left
nothing special
This is the day you have to study
do nothing.
Then i do nothing
The next morning, when I reached the trap
It was a surprise to see this
It is no longer covered.
That's a pig
A female
Its mother must have passed it
But the little guy fell into it.
do you know,
I made a big hole just for you
Little pig like you
I really do not know
What do i plan to do
But of course I will not leave it and die here
alone
A few days later, when my fingers are ready
I decided to continue searching for Captain Cook's cave.
When Tonga took me to the island
They told me there
This time, luck is on my side.
I will feel some shock
I have a feeling that I finally found it
In my garden
These plants make me happier
This is a
And here
Another very small person at the beginning
I am really happy
I made it with my little hand
This is the result
Usually when I walk, the pig will follow me, but
I have to walk a lot today
Pig follow me
But followed me a mile
Something like this
Then enter the bush
And start hiding
It may take me two hours for me
Bring the pig back
After i have to carry it
Pig doesn't like to be taken away
Then shout
with
Pig raising
Raising pigs for two hours and three hours
Such a shout is impossible.
Very noisy, pig
Why
Next time I will put a small cage in front of my house
Pigs are because...
How patient are you longing...
These two hours!
so terrible!
Every day, the island is full of surprises.
From waving a machete
I ended up cutting some strange vines.
Yes
It's coming
Yes definitely take some time
Drink water in our country, but...
At least we have water, here we have time
Very good, a little sweet
When I go to the forest, I have a
This is because there are not many coconuts around
I want to drink
Since I'm on tofu, it's really
I saw this for the first time
Big wave
This is a very big wave.
That's where I go fishing
Today's waves are 10m higher than they are now
Seems like the beginning of the storm, or I don’t know
Oh la la! Big waaaaaave
Really good
Seeing the storm coming,
I want to know if my heart will survive
Water resistance is one thing
But there are other issues to consider
Like the roof is flying away
Or a coconut tree poured on it.
I have to take out the solar panel.
The next morning, return to the same place
Have nothing.
The ocean took everything away.
at night
The wind is getting bigger
When night came, my ordeal really began.
The crackling sound is very scary
But the worst is when the wind turns
Rain hit me
There is no more hiding place.
I soak...
Hello everyone
Now morning again
This is good because
All night, I did not sleep
I can't see around me
I don't know what happened
I can hear thunderstorm thunder
A lot of noise, thunderstorms,
Thunder, lightning and everything.
I fell asleep, but every time I fall asleep
Things wake me up again
Very short night
Now i won't come again
Because i can see it again
What happened is important
New day new day
I am happy because my residence is still there
that's good
This is what I cleaned in front of the house
I decided to take two paths in front of the house.
I know it is not very useful to take these paths
Because every day I have to do it again
Because the leaves on the tree
Fell a lot
I need to do it again
Then I still have something to do
Because sometimes, the time here
Sometimes it's very long, and then I don't know what to do.
I must also put the solar system back
Obviously not wrong
It's fully charged
I am not sure about the adapter
Work because of all the humidity
Probably in a storm
I thought he was broken, but still
It looks good.
But there were some casualties and storms anyway.
At first glance everything is okay.
Sugar cane grew up
And onions and taro
Watermelon did not.
They are rotten, terrible
Everything is destroyed
I am suffering in a new manual project
I am very happy because now I have a bench.
Sometimes it’s hard to get motivated here
But today
I woke up and I said yes, I'm going to make a bench
Now i have a bench at night
I have a bench
I am very happy.
I'm about to end the adventure
Gail will come to help me soon
Adapt to social life
Ready to go home
So I started to scan the horizon.
In this world, nothing is taken for granted.
Baby is a surprising surprise for me
as usual
It’s down, but this time
She is gone.
I went to the island today
It’s about 500 meters, otherwise it’s 500 meters.
I tried to find her, but...
The island is too big
How long can you find...
Can't find her.
But at least i tried
When I proposed to her in the cave, I did
She is a bit like
Up to three weeks
Very small
I must try my best to feed her
A week later she started to eat by herself
A great victory for me
I feel like my parents
People who need to let their children out.
If this is her decision
Back to nature and split with me
And start living in the wild again
This is her decision
I am very happy
Now she is gone
There is no trouble around my house.
I kind of miss this...
I mean you know, this is part of the game.
I just hope she is all right.
If the day before I left
She wants to come back to say hello
I will be happy
Gael's arrival means the end of my lonely life
It really restored my energy.
I want to show him everything
When it comes back
I told myself it was incredible.
Very good, since Gail arrived
I can be like
The food i used to eat
In Switzerland, there is dried meat and
And cheese
with
This is Nirvana Paradise
Christmas time
One of Gael's first challenges
Is walking through the forest
Um, Gail, where is the road?
In another two weeks,
I tried to share my experience
One of my friend’s last nine months
fishing
volcanic
I told him all
My joy
My sadness
My loneliness
The final departure is coming to an end.
There is another task to be completed
Before leaving the island
When i put the box in the hole
I stopped time
What i realize now is
Even if i want to stop the time
Time continues
But you don’t have the same opinion
For me, it is important to always know
Day of the week
I know that every experience has a beginning
And it's over.
And when to start the experience
When the adventure begins
You always have to move forward
Finally, you must accept
You have given up all this.
This is part of quitting all games
Then back
My previous life
When i came here i didn't know
Anything about this place
anything
just now
I can say that after nine and a half months
I feel home
Yes